[Lens] Docs for time shift (#102048)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/dashboard/lens-advanced.asciidoc

. Click *Save and return*.

[discrete]
[[compare-time-ranges]]
=== Compare time ranges

> *Lens* allows you to shift individual dimensions in time to compare the currently selected time range with historical data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Lens* allows you to compare the currently selected time range with historical data using the *Time shift* option.
```

To compare current sales numbers with sales from a week ago, follow these steps: 

. Open *Lens*.

. From the *Chart Type* dropdown, select *Line*.

. From the *Available fields* list, drag and drop *Records* to the visualization builder.

. Copy the *Count of Records* series by dragging it to the empty drop target of the *Vertical axis* dimension group (*Drop a field or click to add*)

. Shift the second *Count of Records* series by one week to do a week-over-week comparison

.. Click the new *Count of Records [1]* dimension

.. Click *Add advanced options* below the field selector

.. Click *Time shift*

[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/lens_time_shift.png[Line chart with week-over-week sales comparison]

Reviewer: Can you crop the screenshot to only focus on the configuration panel? The rest of the UI changes more often.

> Time shifts can be used on any metric. The special shift *previous* will show the time window preceding the currently selected one, spanning the same duration.

Reviewer 2: Lines 324-328 provide some really good information and context for time shift. I would move it up so that it appears right after `*Lens* allows you to shift individual dimensions in time to compare the currently selected time range with historical data.`.

> For example if *Last 7 days* is selected in the time picker in the top right, *previous* will show data from 14 days ago to 7 days ago.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if *Last 7 days* is selected in the time filter, *previous* will show data from 14 days ago to 7 days ago.
```

If multiple time shifts are used in a single chart, a multiple of the date histogram interval should be chosen - otherwise data points might not line up in the chart and empty spots can occur.

> For example if a daily interval is used, shifting one series by *36h* and another one by *1d* is not recommended. In this scenario either reduce the interval to *12h* or create two separate charts.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if a daily interval is used, shifting one series by *36h*, and another one by *1d*, is not recommended. In this scenario, either reduce the interval to *12h*, or create two separate charts.  
```
